## The test

Final test - 13 June (Thursday)

Grammar + Vocabulary - Unit 1, 2, 3, 6

### Ex. 2b

1. Not given
2. True
3. True
4. Not given (lmao)
5. False
6. False

### Ex. 5a

1. A
2. B
3. A

### Ex. 5b

1. As the tram trundles through the suburbs of Geneva
2. that are helping us understand what the universe is actually made of
3. whose countries are in conflict
4. who is not really up to speed on quarks, strangeness, mass and gluons

# Commas

My brother who lives in London is a doctor - defining relative clause
One of my brothers - specifically the one living in London


My brother, who lives in London, is a doctor - non-defining realtive clause
My brother is a doctor and lives in London

If we are defining something, then commas, else no commas.

that is an alternative to who, but only in defining relative clause

He offered me a cigarette which was strange - defining

He offered me a cigarette, which was strange - non-defining

## Ex. 6a

1. The scientists use video conferencing facilities in order to work together from their labs all over the world.
2. The main CERN site has a large computer centre which contains very powerful data-processing facilities.
3. Although CERN is currecntly famous for the Large Hadron Collider, they also gained prestige through its connection with the beginnings of the World Wide Web.
4. In March 2013, CERN announed that they had discovered the Higgs boson particle.
5. The system was shut down on 19 September 2008, when a magnet was found to be faulty.
6. Peter Higgs' Nobel Prize in physics was controversial, because several other physicists were also responsible for developing the mechanism to predict a particle.
7. You will get a better understanding of CERN's work culture and values, if you make a personal visit to CERN

## Ex. 6b
1. clause of purpose
2. (deifning) relative clause 
3. clause of contrast
4. reported speech
5. clause of time
6. clause of reason
7. conditional clause